# Virtual DOM is a kind of object  representation 

## Episode 1 Notes:-

Emmet is a free add-on for text editors that allows developers to type shortcuts that are then expanded into full pieces of code. Emmet is also known as Zen Coding.

Cross origin attribute the mode of request Http cors request. Webpages often make a request to load resources on another resources. It request stylesheet,iframe, script,image ,font

React.development.js & react.production.js are the to main version of react library
React.development.js is intended to use in development & debugging process. It provide additional checks, warning & error for developer at the time of development. So the file size is heavy
React.production.js version is meant to server in production environment.The file size will be compared to react.development.js will be small

1. ReactElement is object which use ReactDom.render() to convert this object to HTML,
2. crossorigin is attribute, mode of request to request HTTP CORS request. It request resouces from another server like style, iframe, script,
3. CDN is Content Delievery Network also know as network distribution and there data center help to provide the data to use with minimal delay

## Episode 2

Npx execute the node package without installing
Package.json is a configuartion for npm
webpack,vite,parcel are the bundler to compose the code & push it to production

Two types of depenedency
a. Devedependency => It only use in development
b. Dependency => It is use in prod/ development

Transitive Depenedency => It means some package having depenedency of some other package & those other package have dependency of some other packages

## Parcel:- Parcel optimizes your whole app for production automatically.

1. Dev Build => Parcel includes a development server out of the box. Just run parcel index.html to get started.

2. Local Server

3. HMR = Hot Module Replacement => When you make a change, Parcel automatically updates your code in the browser – no page reload necessary!

4. File Watching Algorithm - Written in C++

5. Caching - Faster Build

6. Minification => Parcel includes minifiers for JavaScript, CSS, HTML, and SVG out of the box! Just run parcel build index.html, and your whole application will be built and optimized automatically.

7. Bundling

8. Compress the file

9. Constient hashing ==> Read all these topic as well as mention below

10. Code Splitting

11. Differential Bundling ==> support to older browser as well parcel take care of this

12. Diagnostic => If you make an error in your code or configuration, Parcel displays beautiful diagnostics in your terminal and in the browser.

13. Error handling => To showcase the error in UI in goood UI

14. HTTPs => provide https mode as well as

15. Created different build/bundles for dev & production

16. Tree Shaking

17. Image Optimization => Parcel supports resizing, converting, and optimizing images!

## .Parcel Cache

The parcel cache directory is a cache generated by parcel bundler . It store the information about the project when it is built.It allow parcel to rebuild the application without re-parsing & re-anlayzing everything
Parcel-cache directory enhances the development workflow by speeding up the subsquent build & optimizing resource usage

## Tree Shaking

This feature is useful when parcel build % compress the production code that time it will remove the unused code

Babel is a JavaScript transpiler, meaning it converts a newer version of ECMAScript, such as ES9, to a standard version (ES5).

Compiling is the transformation from Source Code (human readable) into machine code (computer executable). A compiler is a program.

## Episode -3

Q. What is JSX?
JSX is HTML like syntax
JSX get transpiled before it reaches to JS Engine
JSX => React.CreateElement => Js Object => HTML

Q. Superpower of JSX?
We can write HTML like syntax as well js with using {}
Easily readable for developer easy to debug.

Q. Role of **type** attribute in script tag ? what options can I use there?
=> The type attribute define the type of script. Type attribute identifies the content between script tag.By default it have "text/javascript"

Below are the few types attribute:

moduel: This value tell the browser that the script have module type it can import,export file or module itself.
type/Ecmascript:This value tell the browser that script is following the EcmaScript standard.
babel:This value indicate that the script support the babel type & required babel to transpile it.
text/typescript:This value inidcate that the script is written in typescript.

{TitleComponent} vs <TitleComponent /> vs <TitleComponent> </TitleComponent>
=> {TitleComponent} It is a javascript experssion or variable . The **{}** embed only js variable & experssion
<TitleComponent/> It is a React Component. React it self with the help of **<** angular tag
<TitleComponent></TitleComponent> It is a equivalent to <TitlComponent/>

## Episode 4

What is Virtual DOM?
=> Virtual DOM concept is used in libaries like React. When we create a component in react, it store the UI Sturcture component in the memory of virtual DOM. It has a tree like struture with nodes that correspond to the element in the UI.

1. Then if we change anything in the component it trigger the react to render the component & create a new VD, Now it compare the previous & newest DOM structure, once it find the difference of the changes occured then React efficiently manage to update the actual DOM ,only that part where data need to reflect .

What is Reconciliation?
=>When we create a new React component, React creates a virtual DOM representation of the component's UI structure and stores it in memory.

1. Diffing Process: When we update a React component, React triggers a re-render of the component and compares the new virtual DOM with the previous one. It identifies the differences between the two.

2. Reconciliation: React determines what parts of the actual DOM need to be updated based on the differences found in the virtual DOM. It calculates the most efficient way to update the actual DOM, focusing on updating only the changed parts rather than the entire DOM.

3. Re-render & Update: React then updates the actual DOM to reflect the changes, resulting in the UI being in sync with the updated data.


What is React Fiber?
=>React fiber is a internal reconciliation algorithm & data struture used in react to prioritize  the update of Virutal DOM.It was introuduced in React 16 to improved the overall performance and responsiveness of React applications.

Key point:-
Reconciliation
Suspense => React Fiber introduced suspense , which allowed developer sepcify loading states and Error boundaries more easily. 
Error Handling => React Fiber provide better error handling and more detailed error message , so developer can easily read and fix it.
Server Side Rendering 
Prioritization => One of the main benefit of react fiber is to prioritize different updates.react allow to resume & pause the rendering process higher-priority updated processed more quickly. 
Incremental Rendering => Instead of rendering the entire component tree in one go, it can break the work into smaller units, or "fibers," and work on them incrementally.

## Episode No 5.

1. Why do we useState hook?
=> UseState hook is use only for React funtional component to manage & update the state.It is use for state management.

2. What is the use of config.js file?
=> It help to declare the global constant and add mockdata, add route, add api credential

3. What are the React Hook?
=> React hooks are the utiltiy fucntion to perform certain action for our code

## Episode No 6

1. super(props) in class Component :- It is essential to use this line, it help to initialize the parent component before we use it.

2. React Lifecycle Process:-
a. Mounting
b. Updating
c. Unmounting

Mounting,Updating,Unmounting has 2 phase render & commit

For Mounting lifecycle method render have 2 sub-phase
constructor is render & then render() is render & in last componentDidMount() is render


UseEffect is use to fetching for functional Component & componentDidMount() is use fetching data in class component likewise useEffect return is use for cleanUp & componentWillUnmount() in use for cleanUp in class component.


3. UseEffect async=> UseEffect except cleanup function which can be undefined or normal function. When you use async directly in the useEffect callback, it returns a promise, which is not what useEffect expects.

## Episode No 9

1. When bundle size is increase we use lazy loading concept to reduce the bundle size
Here are few alternative name for that:-

Chunking
Code Splitting
Dynamic Loading
Lazy Loading
On demand loading
dynamic import

2. What is Suspense?
=> When we want use lazy loading feature that suspense is use to give us placeholder/fallback option till when React component loaded

3. <Supense fallback(()=><h1>Loading</h1>)>
<Grocery />
</Supense>


4. Advantages & Disadvantages for Code Splitting
=> Pros:-
Reduced Initial Load Time
Smaller Initial Bundle Size
Lazy Loading
Faster Interactivity
Modular Development

=> Cons:-
Increased Complexity
Tooling Requirements
Runtime Overhead
Debugging Complexity
Increased Network Requests


## Episode No 10

1. Why do we use .postcsssrc file?
=> Postcss is use to write css in javascript, parcel get's to know via postcss that we suppose to use tailwindcss in our React Component

## Episode No 11

1. In tailwind css config file what are the use of content, plugin, extends, theme?
=> content: The content key is used to specify the content for the content property in the CSS. This is mainly used when you want to define pseudo-elements or pseudo-classes.

```
 content: {
    'before': 'content before',
    'after': ['content(2)', 'content(3)'],
  },
  ```

extend: Extend key is used to add or override  styles in the default tailwind css config, it is used to add our custom utility classes

```
  extend: {
    fontFamily: {
      custom: ['CustomFont', 'sans'],
    },
    fontSize: {
      '7xl': '5rem',
    },
  },
  ```

plugin: It is use to register custom plugin or extend or modify tailwind css. It can add new features, custom utilities

```
  plugins: [
    plugin(({ addUtilities }) => {
      const newUtilities = {
        '.skew-45': {
          transform: 'skewY(-45deg)',
        },
      };

      addUtilities(newUtilities, ['responsive', 'hover']);
    }),
  ],
```

theme: Theme is used to override the default values like custom padding, spacing, fontvalues
```
 theme: {
    extend: {
      colors: {
        customColor: '#ff4500',
      },
      spacing: {
        '72': '18rem',
      },
    },
  },
  ```